the film begins with a young boy
thomas taken in by ava page and troops
from the organization wckd
alongside other abandoned children after
being dropped off by his mother for his
own safety
years later shortly after being rescued
from the maze
thomas and the remaining gladers teresa
agnes
newt minnow frypan and winston
are taken to a facility run by mr jensen
he explains that the facility is a safe
haven protecting them from wckd
flare virus and the cranks and provides
them clothes
food and sanitation where other
survivors of multiple mazes are also
present thomas becomes curious about
their activities and manages to find out
what is really happening behind the
closed doors
with help from eris the first maze
survivor to end up in the facility
thomas finds that wckd's later eva is
still alive and that mr janssen is
working for wckd
as they discuss about the experiment on
the immunes and that jansen has yet to
find the right arm
a resistance group located at the
mountains the group
including heiress escapes the facility
as janssen orders his wckd
troops to track them down where they
find themselves in the deserted outside
world
the scorch the group arrive at an
abandoned marketplace where they first
encountered the cranks
humans zombified by the flare virus in
the process
winston gets infected by one of them
when morning comes
they find the remains of the city in
ruins and the wckd
is still searching for them winston's
infection gets worse forcing the rest of
the group to leave him alone to die
by shooting himself preventing his
transformation the group continues to
venture the desert until one night while
sleeping
thomas wakes to discover a civilization
off in the distance
as the thunderstorm emerges they run to
an abandoned facility to take shelter
minnow gets struck by lightning on the
way but survives
they managed to enter the place only to
find out that the facility was filled
with chained cranks
the group meets brenda and jorge who
lead a dangerous band of survivors
and have used the cranks as their own
guard dogs when the two find that the
group had come from wckd
and is looking for the right arm the two
agreed to take them to the right arm
abandoning the group of survivors
moments later wckd led by janssen
stormed the place only for the facility
to be destroyed by for his explosives
however thomas and brenda are left
behind as the rest have escaped with
jorge
thomas and brenda managed to escape the
cranks only for brenda to get infected
by a crank in the process
thomas experiences a flashback of when
he and theresa were working
for wckd in which thomas tries to warn
teresa of wckd's plans
only for the two to be separated by
wckd's troops
as thomas and brenda reunite with the
rest of the group jorge interrogates
marcus
a survivor who secretly works for wckd
into revealing the whereabouts of the
right arm
the group eventually arrive at the right
arms relief camps
our other innocent survivors are present
and are greeted by vince
who leads the right arm and is in charge
of deciding whether they can stay or not
as brenda's infection gets worse vince
threatens to shoot brenda only to be
stopped by mary cooper
a former wckd scientist who reveals that
thomas was their informant
as mary halts brenda's infection using
an enzyme cure
mary explains that the enzyme can only
be harvested from an immune's body
not manufactured that arguments over the
methods of manufacturing the cure with
ava
led to mary's departure from wckd that
evening
teresa calls wckdn tells them of her
location believing that wckd's
motivations are good
leading to an ambush by wckd ava and
jansen arrive and confront the right arm
before wckd
troops capture survivors for
experimentation including minnow
while jansen shoots mary cooper dead
after thomas and the right arm fend the
wckd troops off
ava janssen and teresa retreat with
their captured survivors
with only a fraction of survivors left
at the site thomas plans an infiltration
into wckd and is determined to take them
down to save his friends and save
civilization
as his friends and their right arm
agreed to help and prepare to fight back
[Music]
you